

Q35. What is JVM and explain me the Java memory allocation?

JVM: Java virtual machine is a machine responsible for compiling and executing java code. It converts byte code to the machine language. JVM will execute a main method JVM will not execute a code if a main method is missing.

Q36. What is Polymorphism and encapsulation?
Polymorphism :Executing methods in more than one form is known as polymorphism.
Poly means many and morphism is forms .

Encapsulation: Encapsulation is integrating data (variables) and code(methods) in to a single unit .In encapsulation class variables are hidden from other classes and it can be accessed only through the method of same class.


Q37. What is method overloading and Method over riding?


method overloading and Method over riding are two important concepts of polymorphism.

method overloading: when there are multiple functions with same name and different parameters then the method is said to be method overloading.
Method over riding  is a compile time  polymorphism and it is also known  as static binding or early binding.


Method over riding : This method can be overridden by a subclass that is already defined by a super class . Method over riding is a runtime polymorphism it is also known as a dynamic binding or a late binding.

Q38. Why string is Immutable?

Strings are often used to store sensitive data like user name and password.as it Is immutable values cannot be changed once created. since string is immutable it is safe for multithreading.

Q39. What is the difference between String and String buffer? 

String: String is an immutable class once it is created its value cannot be changed. If you try to modify that will result in creation of new string object. this immutable character make string less effective.

String buffer: String buffer class in java which is mutable in character and you can modify it without creating an object every time.

Q40. What is the difference between array and array list?

Array: size of array are fixe and once it is created its size cannot be changed.
Arrays can hold only primitive data type.
Arrays are multidimentional
Arrays are static in size and not flexible as size is fixed

Array list: Array list can grow dynamically. size of array list will vary as it is dynamic in nature
 Array list can store objects
Array list are single dimentional

 Array list are flexible as it is dynamic in character

Q41. What is the difference between hash map and Hash table?

Hash map: Hash map is an implementation class of map interface
1)Duplicate keys are not allowed and duplicate values are allowed
2)It maintains random order 
3)it is thread safe
 
Hash table: hash table does not contain null values in both keys and values.
2)it maintains ascending order
3)It is not thread safe

Q42. What is a vector in Java?

In java vector is a dynamic array that can grow or shrink in size as needed. Its similar to array list but with a key difference.it is synchornised.

Q43. What is set in java?

Answer: set is one of child interface in java 
It works on value basis
It does not allow duplicates
Insertion order not maintained

Q44. What is an abstract class?

1)A class which contains both abstract and non abstract methods (partial abstraction)
2)use keyword abstract in a class.
3)contains key word extends
4)we can’t create an object in abstract class.


Q45. What is an interface?
Specifies behaviour of a class by providing an abstract type
1)It contains only abstract method
2)Contains keyword implements
3)we cant create an object
4)use keyword interface in class.

Q46.  Why Java is Platform independent?

Java is Platform independent because a java compiler code can run on all operating systems like (windows, Mac and linux) without any changes.


Q47. What are access modifiers? Give me an example?
In java access modifier are keywords that control the accessibility of classes, interface variables and methods
There are four types of access modifier in java
Public: In public class, methods and variables are accessed from any where irrespective of class or package it belongs to.

Protected :The protected provide access to the class method or variables from within same package as well as from subclass in different package.
Default: When no access modifier is specified default access modifier is applied. This means class methods or variables is accessed only with in the package it belongs 
Private:  private access modifier provide lowest accessibility. In private class method and variables are accessed only within the class it belongs to.

Q48. What are java exceptions? Give me an example

In java exception is an event which occurs during the execution of the program that disturbs the normal flow of the program

Public class DivisionExample{

Public static void main (String[] args){

Int a=10;
Int b=0;

try{
Int result= a/b;
System.out.println(“Result:”+result):

}catch (Arithmetic exception e){

System.out.println(“Error:division by Zero);



49a What is the difference between throws and throwable?

“throws” keyword used to indicate the exception which is thrown by a method  and “throwable” is a superclass of all exception and errors in java.


Q50. What is the difference between Error and exception?


Error : An error is a very sever problem which cannot be handled by programmer both error and exception occurs during runtime .It includes logical error and syntax error and incorrect calculations.

Exception: An Exception is an unexpected event which occurs during the execution of a program in runtime that disturb the normal flow of the program and it can be handled by a program by using try catch block in the code.


Q51. What is the difference between Error, throwable and exception?

Error : An error is a very sever problem which cannot be handled by programmer both error and exception occurs in runtime .It includes logical error and syntax error and incorrect calculations.

Exception: An Exception is an unexpected event which occurs during the execution of a program in runtime that disturb the normal flow of the program and it can be handled by a program 
Throwable: Throwable is a super class of all exceptions and errors in java.



Q52. What are collection APIs, give me an example?
A collection API refers to a set of programming interface that provide standardized method for managing and manipulating groups of data 

Collection has three interfaces
1)List
2)Set
3)Queue

Q53. What is the difference between final and finally?

Final: final is used to declare variables class and methods as unchangeable. final class cannot be inherited or overridden by a subclass.

Finally: used in exception handling to define a block of code that will always execute regardless of exception is thrown or catch.



Q54. Will java supports multiple inheritance?

No java does not support multiple inheritance because it may trigger priority issues. It can be achieved through an interface.

Q55.  What are the different types of interface? (Ans List, set, Queue)

List :list is a child interface of collection,
It maintains insertion order
Duplicate values are allowed
It works on index basis

Set : Like list set is also a child interface of collections 
 It maintain s  insertion order 
It allows duplicates
It works on value basis.

Queue: In java queue is a data structure which follows FIFO(first in first out).This means first one added to the queue is the first on to be removed.


Q56. What are wrapper class? Give me an example

 Wrapper classes provide methods to convert between primitive types and objects. For example, Integer. parseInt() converts a string to an int , and Integer. toString() converts an Integer object to a string.


Q57. What is boxing and unboxing in Java? Explain with an example?

Boxing: converting primitive data type in a corresponding wrapper class object

Unboxing: converting wrapper class in to primitive data type


Q58. Explain for each loop?

For each loop is also known as advanced for loop or enhanced for loop.It is used to iterate collections and arrays.it provides simple way to loop elements when compared to traditional for loop.

Q59. What are iterators, explain with an example

An iterator in java is an interface used to traverse elements in an collections sequentially. It provides metod like HashNext() and remove()to loop through collections and perform manipulation.

HashNext() returns true if there are more elements to iterate over otherwise false

Next() :Return the next element in the iterations

Remove():Remove the last element return by the iterator from the underlying collections.

Q 63. What is multithreading, serialization and Generics in Java

Multithreading: Ability of a program to execute multiple threading concurrently. It performs multiple tasks simultaneously.

Serialization: Serialization in java is a process of converting an object into byte stream which can be stored in a file sent over the network or persist in database.

Generics: Generics means parameterized type. The idea is to allow a type to be a parameter to method classes and interfaces using generics. Its possible to create  classes that work with different data type.















































